PACKAGE
-------

Package files should only include subdirectories of the install
target. For example, do not specify C:\FDOS in the path. The install
target may be referred to after installation using the %DOSDIR%
variable.

1.0 PACKAGES

FreeDOS 1.0 used separate packages for binaries ("pkg") and source
code ("spkg"). The below directories are subdirectories of the base
install directory.

Binary packages used this directory structure:

	APPINFO
	Put the program's LSM file here.

	BIN
	Binaries, such as exe and com files. And if a program is made
	of of a bat file, then that goes in BIN too. Programs only.

	DOC
	Package documentation, with each package having its own
	directory (for example, DOC\CHOICE). This allows a complicated
	package such as a compiler or programmable editor to include
	more than just a readme (perhaps sample code for the compiler,
	technical notes or other references, etc.)

	HELP
	The help files.

Source packages used this directory:

	SOURCE
	The complete source code (when installed) with each package
	having its own directory. (For example, SOURCE\CHOICE).

1.1 PACKAGES

FreeDOS 1.1 will use a single package file that includes binary and
source code. The Installer can choose to remove the source code after
the install.

The directory structure is otherwise the same as 1.0:

	APPINFO
	Put the program's LSM file here.

	BIN
	Binaries, such as exe and com files. Programs only.

	DOC
	Package documentation, with each package having its own
	directory.

	HELP
	The help files.

	SOURCE
	The complete source code (when installed) with each package
	having its own directory. (For example, SOURCE\CHOICE).

ZIP FILES

When the FreeDOS install program was first written, we used zip as the
package manager. We chose zip for several reasons, not the least of
them the fact that zip files under DOS have become the de facto way to
distribute collections of files. The file format is well known, well
supported, and in the public domain.

However, zip files lack certain features that we planned to (one day)
build into the install program, such as dependencies - so we may one
day switch file formats. But for now, zip files are the standard.

If you are using PKZIP to create your packages, you will want to use a
command line like this one:

	PKZIP -ex -Pr package.zip subdir/*.*

Or with PKZIP 2.5x, you can also use:

	PKZIP -exx -Pr package.zip subdir/*.*

Or, if you are using Info-ZIP to create your packages, use:

	ZIP −9 -r -k package.zip subdir

Always make sure that your zip files contain valid 8.3 filenames. For
example, when using PKZIP 2.5x, you may additionally require either
the -n option or the PKWARE.INI directive [PKZIP] USELFN=disabled to
disable long filenames - at least, when long filenames are available.
