This project was started in 2001. No changelog for initial changes...
This is both a changelog and a place to put notes about undelete.

Compilation: Turbo C with the included .tc and .prj files (adjust the
             paths as needed), plus to reassemble the low level disk
             part NASM. Use nasm with the -fobj option to create
             bigdisk.obj. For Linux: gcc -Wall *.c -s -o undelete.elf
             Now with makefile for Turbo C to produce small .COM file

Nov 14 2003: MS-style interface, includes switches /ALL and /LIST.
             Rebuilds the FAT chain directly after prompting for recovery
             by directory/filename etc.

Oct 20 2002: Added "extract" mode and made autodetection of the size
             the default for all modes. Fixed a bug that would cause
             failure to read partitions of size 16..32 MB. New help
             screen, GNU GPL License disclaimer spread over all files.
             Howto is part of the package but already deprecated with
             respect to size autodetection :-(. More verbose error
             messages. Help screen made with help of Emanuele Cipolla.
             Full GPL disclaimers on request of JHall of the FreeDOS
             project ( http://www.freedos.org/ ). Special undelete
             release for my birthday today ;-). Both DOS and Linux
             binaries (Linux version reads test.img, wants a dummy
             prefix "x:" for target files) and .obj included.

Nov 07 2002: Added better LFN display and removed the need to have NASM
             for the "DOS disks > 32 MB" driver part. All C now. Also
             allows drivespec in dirsave dir selection now, which is
             IGNORED. This is only there to ease the use of UNDELETE in
             combination with the new cool %_CWD% feature of FreeCOM 0.83
             beta 50.
             Added some batch files that use the new FreeCOM to mirror
             the normal mirror stuff and optionally the whole directory
             data dump. Added a nifty COUNT tool for counting in batch
             files (by me) and the public domain GLOBAL recursion
             helper tool.

If you find any errors or if you want to add FAT32 support or
other fancy features, please contact me: eric@coli.uni-sb.de

Fancy features can include: Relative directory names for dirsave
and wildcard search for follow and extract. Please do not break
old functions by adding new features.

Eric Auer, current maintainer of this UNDELETE (and mirror) tool.
